Jek Tono Porkins nicknamed Piggy was a male human trader and pilot from Bestine IV . He decided to abandon his homeworld after the Galactic Empire moved in and built a new military base there and he ended up joining the Alliance to Restore the Republic . 
Originally a trader on Bestine IV Jek Porkins began to see the brutality of the Galactic Empire when they decided to build a base upon his homeworld which uprooted the lives of any inhabits in the path of its construction . As the Empire's authoritarian attitude grew Porkins left his homeworld . Seeking revenge he trained to become a pilot in the Starfighter Corps of the Alliance to Restore the Republic . 
After joining the starfighter corps Porkins was assigned to the Mid Rim planet of Tierfon where he flew many missions with the Tierfon Yellow Aces . However the Empire eventually caught wind of their activities in the sector and tightened their grip on it forcing the Rebel Alliance to abandon the Tierfon . After leaving the planet Porkins was reassigned to the Alliance's main base on Yavin 4 and was placed under the command of General Antoc Merrick . As a seasoned rebel pilot Porkins was known for ritual hazing of new recruits despite his fellow veterans being generally accomodating . 
In 0 BBY Jek Porkins flew an X-wing starfighter as a member of Red Squadron during the Battle of Scarif going by the callsign Red Six where he and his squadron were assigned to engage the Star Destroyers and TIE fighters . The battle ended with the theft of the technical readouts for the Death Star a moon-sized Imperial battlestation . 
Just days after returning from Scarif Porkins dished out drinks for his fellow pilots at Base One on the night before the Battle of Yavin . He once again flew with Red Squadron again as Red Six alongside Nozzo Naytaan as the wingmen of Zal Dinnes . He bumped into Biggs Darklighter after the mission briefing exchanging banter with his fellow pilot that Darklighter considered to be a ritual hazing from the cocky Bestine native . 
Shortly before the battle began Dreis once again assigned Porkins to fly under the callsign of Red Six . During the battle Dreis ordered the destruction of one of the Death Star's deflection towers which Porkins and Darklighter destroyed with their starfighters' laser cannons . Porkins' craft struck debris from the tower and began to malfunction causing him to drift over the Imperial turbolaser batteries mounted on the surface . Porkins was convinced he could still navigate his fighter ignoring Darklighter's warnings to extract from the area . Porkins' fighter was caught in turbolaser crossfire and he was killed almost instantly . The officers and pilots around the central command table in the Massassi war room heard Porkins' last words and Elyhek Rue vowed that he would be avenged . Despite this another Rebel pilot didn't receive word of his death, and asked if Porkins could see Luke Skywalker's fighter a few minutes after Jek was shot down . 
Over three decades later Porkins was remembered through the Porkins Belly Run a Resistance flight maneuver named in his honor . Whilst traveling aboard the Millennium Falcon following the Battle of Crait BB-8 told R2-D2 about the death of the Abednedo pilot Ello Asty who went by the callsign Red Six . R2 told him that they had lost a Red Six too during the Battle of Yavin . 
As a rebel pilot Porkins flew both BTL-A4 Y-wing assault starfighter/bombers and T-65B X-wing starfighters . He wore an orange flight suit and flight helmet with orange and red markings . His astromech droid was R5-D8 . 
Watto was a male Toydarian junk dealer/human trafficker who owned a shop in Mos Espa Tatooine . He was the owner of Shmi Skywalker as well as her son Anakin Skywalker the young boy who would grow up to become both a revered Jedi Knight and a feared Sith Lord known as Darth Vader .
Watto started his life as a soldier on Toydaria . However he left Toydaria after he suffered an injury and went to Tatooine where he watched Jawas sell used goods and decided to start his own business .
Qui-Gon Jinn attempting to negotiate with Watto
Watto became a junk dealer living in Mos Espa where he owned a small shop . Watto won two slaves Shmi Skywalker and her son Anakin from Gardulla the Hutt in a bet . Watto discovered Anakin's natural podracing abilities and began to sponsor the boy in several Podraces . Despite this Watto often bet against Anakin . Watto would also host podracing viewing parties for his gambling partners and friends in his private box . Aside from maintaining the droids at his shop Watto also had Anakin polish parts of them .
In 32 BBY the Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn came to his store looking for parts for his ship . Qui-Gon didn't have enough money and was unable to negotiate a price with Watto even failing to perform a mind trick on the Toydarian .
Watto observing the Boonta Eve podracing event
The next day Qui-Gon told Watto that he wanted to enter Anakin in the Boonta Eve Classic in exchange for parts for his ship . Watto agreed and entered Anakin but Watto bet on the Dug racer Sebulba . Qui-Gon placed a bet for Anakin's freedom despite Watto's warnings that Anakin was going to lose anyway . Anakin however won the race and left Tatooine with Qui-Gon to become a Jedi on Coruscant while Shmi remained with Watto .
Years later Watto sold Shmi to the moisture farmer Cliegg Lars who bought her to live with him on his moisture farm . Four years after the Invasion of Naboo Senator Amidala sent her handmaiden Sabe to track down Shmi and free as many slaves as she could . Sabe was unsuccessful in tracking down Watto or Shmi being forced to instead waste time dealing with Watto's associates . During all these years Watto continued with his faithful trade and even bought adjacent buildings to enlarge his shop but he started to suffer great losses on gambling leaving the future of his business unsure aside from that he had no longer the necessary personnel and was forced to do all the hard work himself .
Watto shortly before the Clone Wars
In 22 BBY shortly before the beginning of the Clone Wars Anakin returned to Tatooine in search of his mother . Watto after recognizing his former slave asked him if he could help with some "deadbeats" who owed him a lot of money . After being asked about Shmi Watto gave him all of the information he knew about Shmi after selling her .
During his exile on Tatooine after Order 66 Obi-Wan Kenobi purchased a humidifier from Watto at an inflated price . After Kenobi was killed by Darth Vader on the Death Star Kenobi found himself in a vision of his hut on Tatooine . He noted that the humidifier was not in the vision among other recent additions that were missing . He then realized the vision was of an earlier time in his hut from around three years into his exile .
Watto was proud of his business and distrusting of Republic credits which he felt weren't "real" enough for the tough economy of an Outer Rim Territory planet like Tatooine . When Qui-Gon Jinn attempted a mind trick on him in order to get him to accept 20000 credits in exchange for a T-14 hyperdrive generator he shrugged it off telling Jinn that as a Toydarian mind tricks didn't work on him . Watto was a heavy gambler and later lost the hyperdrive and Anakin in a bet he had wagered against the Jedi . After Anakin's departure he started to suffer heavy losses on gambling .
As the owner of Anakin and Shmi Skywalker Watto was particularly not a kind master even though the living conditions of the Skywalkers were more agreeable in comparison to their life in servitude to Gardulla the Hutt . However Watto sometimes showed flashes of compassion: he allowed Anakin to go home early if he finished all his assigned tasks and Shmi to perform certain quieter duties at the comfort of her private work station .
Watto's underestimation of Anakin proved to be a heavy blow to his business . Once Anakin left Tatooine and after he sold Shmi to the Lars family Watto found himself with no help and was forced to do the hard job himself so his business could survive . Ill-used to the huge capabilities of his former slave Watto wasn't able to find anymore servants with the sufficient technical knowledge .
Watto as seen in The Phantom Menace
Watto was portrayed and voiced by actor Andrew Secombe in the 1999 film Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace and its 2002 sequel Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones . Secombe played Watto on set to give animators a reference for lighting and eye-line .
Conceived by Star Wars creator George Lucas Watto's design was more avian in nature featuring plumage and a beak . Later incarnations of the Toydarian featured a cigar and tentacles . When artist Terryl Whitlatch began designing the character she began with an ugly "cherub-like" design . Lucas suggested that he be given webbed duck-like feet . Eventually the basis for the character's face was derived from an early concept painting of the Neimoidian race by concept artist Doug Chiang particularly the hooked trunk and the crooked teeth . As the character spoke frequently animator Rob Coleman found lip-syncing Watto's lines with Secombe's delivery of the dialog to be difficult . To solve the issue Coleman had part of Watto's teeth chipped away so the character could speak out the side of his mouth making the syncing process much easier . Sound designer Ben Burtt recorded himself opening and closing an umbrella to make the sound of Watto's wings flapping .
Elan Sel'Sabagno also known as Elan Sleazebaggano was a male Balosar death stick dealer on the planet Coruscant during the Separatist Crisis .
Elan Sel'Sabagno was a male Balosar slythmonger who was present on Coruscant the capital of the Galactic Republic during the Separatist Crisis . He tended to tour Coruscant's nightclubs to sell his addictive death sticks . In 22 BBY shortly before the outbreak of the Clone Wars Sel'Sabagno was present in the Outlander Club and attempted to sell his death sticks in the drinks bar to Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi who was searching for the Clawdite bounty hunter Zam Wesell . Kenobi used a mind trick to convince Sel'Sabagno that he did not want to sell the Jedi any death sticks and instead wanted to go home and rethink his life . By the time Kenobi and his Padawan Anakin Skywalker were assisting Wesell at the back of the establishment Sel'Sabagno had already left the club to go home and think over .
In the Imperial Era Sel'Sabagno by then with a child of his own passed by a conversation between Leia Organa and Forzaa on Coruscant .
Always searching for credits Elan Sel'Sabagno made his living selling death sticks to patrons of the Outlander Club and other hot spots in the underlevels of Coruscant targeting both desperate addicts and unwise thrill-seekers . However Sel'Sabagno was weak-minded as Obi-Wan Kenobi performed a mind trick on him and convinced him to not sell death sticks to the Jedi Knight and to go home to rethink his life .
Elan Sleazebaggano was portrayed by Matt Doran in the 2002 film Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones . The character was named by Star Wars creator George Lucas . In Star Wars Legends the character was identified as Elan Sel'Sabagno .
Although Sel'Sabagno's ears were replaced by antennapalps in post-production of Attack of the Clones the reference photography didn't have the digital alteration causing early Sleazebaggano toys to have ears instead of antennapalps .
